There are three parts to this course.
In part one, we will discuss saving money
and the unbelievable power of compound interest,
and how very small changes in your savings habits
can lead to incredible wealth generation in the long run.
Your Complete Personal Finance Dashboard is very easy
to use, and I will tell you when to open it
and how to complete the exercises.
And so, in part one of the dashboard,
we cover the following savings concepts
through very easy and enjoyable exercises, as follows,
we will start off with how very small changes can lead
to huge savings later in life, then we'll analyze
what you make and what you spend by building
an income statement, and don't worry please if you haven't
learned about income statements before,
as this exercise is all about money in and money out,
which is what an income statement is,
I'll make it very easy to understand.
We will then create your new and improved income statement
based on more than 100 different ways
that we will discuss to save money.
And you can also completely customize this entire
spreadsheet, and of course I will show you how to do this
in the second to last section of this course.
We're gonna look at many very easy to understand graphs
and simple ratios to analyze your spending
and savings patterns, with the goal
of helping you to save much, much more.
Then at the very end of part one of the course,
meaning the Save portion of the course,
we will do a comprehensive Save Money Checklist exercise.
Then in part two of the course,
we will discuss protecting your money.
We will complete a very simple net worth exercise,
which is a balance sheet, and again,
don't worry if you don't understand what a balance sheet is,
as I'll make this very easy to understand
as we'll discuss what you own and what you owe,
which is basically what a balance sheet is.
And we'll analyze easy to understand ratios
based on your net worth, meaning based on your balance
sheet, so we can make sure that your financial health
is in excellent condition, including very easy to understand
life insurance and other insurance concepts.
I'll make a boring financial set of rules very easy
to understand and interesting as well, you'll enjoy this.
So we'll also talk about how to minimize how much tax
you will pay, how to know how money you'll need
in case you lose your job, which has happened to me before,
or how much money you should spend on a house
or on a mortgage or how to calculate all the stuff
that will help you achieve your financial goals.
And you'll enjoy this, too, and in part two,
we'll also discuss a budgeting exercise.
We're also gonna discuss if your money is safe at your bank
or not, and making sure that you're not getting ripped off
on banking fees by completing an exercise on that topic.
I'm also gonna teach you how to organize your finances
so that your financial health is optimized
when it comes to paying taxes.
Then at the end of part two of the course,
meaning at the end of the Protect portion
of the course, we'll do a comprehensive
Protect Your Money Checklist exercise.
Don't worry, again it won't be boring,
and if you think it is, then please know
that there is a money-back guarantee on this course.
Then in the third and final part of the course,
we're gonna discuss making money and making your money work
for you, so you can make much more money in the long run.
And we will discuss investing in bonds
and fascinating economics concepts that you need
to understand, given globalization, like fiscal policy,
monetary policy, et cetera.
And again, this won't be boring,
and this certainly will not be a theoretical course.
And in part three, we will also discuss picking stocks
to invest in, and the right investment funds to invest in,
as well as investing in commodities, real estate,
and other investment classes.
We will also discuss diversification,
meaning what percent of your investments should be in stocks
or bonds, et cetera, based on factors like your age.
Although I will always tell you when to open
and complete exercises in your Complete Personal Finance
Dashboard, I wanna highlight a few other features
in the dashboard, so you can continue to use the document
after you complete this course.
And so, you can see here in the top left hand corner,
you will see a dark blue button
called the Dashboard Navigator.
And this is a high-level snapshot of the status,
or health, of your Save, Protect, and Make Money exercises,
and this will automatically be populated and updated
as you go through this course,
and again I'll make it very easy to understand.
Now beside this dark blue button you'll see
a light blue Save Money button,
then a Protect Money button,
and then a Make Money button here.
And you can always click on this three buttons
for an overview of those three
respective parts of the course.
Moving over to the right,
there is a speedometer that will update
as you complete each exercise in the course.
I included a few smaller icons here that you can click on
if you want to watch a video
on how to use the tab you're currently on.
You can click on this little button here
and it'll give you an overview video of that tab, okay.
And click this one here to see a checklist of what exercises
you have completed, and this one if you want
to document your mileage for potential tax deduction
reasons, and don't worry, we'll cover that
in more detail later.
Then to right of that, you can navigate
to the next exercise in the course,
or go back, and you can also actually click to any exercise
in the course by clicking on this feature here.
And if you can't see this option, then go here to view,
and then select Formula Bar, okay.
And as you go through the exercises,
when you are done with an exercise,
please just click the completion checkbox option here,
so that your completion speedometer is updated, okay.
So you know the status of the course,
how much you've completed.
And below this, you'll see a bunch of gray buttons
that I created as helpful resources for you,
like your balance sheet, your income statement,
your diversified investment portfolio, your budget also,
so you can map out your financial goals,
as well as make money, as well as look at the many different
Make Money calculators that are easy to understand
and fun to use in this course.
And there's also a tax filing organizer
and other options like how to secure this file.
Now separately we're gonna discuss identity theft protection
in this course as well, and if you click on the dark gray
settings button here, you can actually customize the course,
and so please complete the settings tab
right now, and just feel free to pause me
and un-pause me as we go through this.
And so, on this settings tab,
the first thing to do is to enter in your country name here,
and let's change it from the United States to France
for example, for this exercise,
okay, you see here, okay.
You will notice that the flag changed here to France,
and the text here is updated to reflect this change.
And your currency rate has also been updated here,
if this rate is not accurate, and I've tried to customize
for every currency in the world, if it's not accurate
and not completely up to date, then please just click
on the hyperlink here, see it there, and update,
just get what your latest currency exchange rate is at,
okay, and so if you want you can type over
in this white box here what the currency is at right now.
Now, you're gonna see many items
in this spreadsheet that are customized for you
based on what you enter on the settings tab.
For example, once we enter the exchange rate,
this sentence here appeared, okay, and what we'll do
is we're gonna express how many units of your currency
is needed to buy one U.S. dollar per this sentence here,
again this is optional.
Next up, enter your first name or your nickname,
and don't enter your last name please,
just your first name or your nickname, okay,
so that the user experience is more enjoyable
and customized, and you'll see why later in the course.
And then next, just enter in your age here,
as we're gonna use this to come up with the right
tax and portfolio investment savings plan for you
later in the course, we'll build this together.
Now, select the age also that you want to retire at,
if you ever wanna retire, okay, and if you want,
enter in your favorite charity here, and again,
many exercises will use the data that you enter here
on the settings tab, okay, and now, if you scroll down
a bit here, see, in the gray shaded box,
you'll see that once you fill in your country name,
and other details, that a lot of helpful information
will appear here that we can reference in future lessons
and exercises, including government tax websites, et cetera,
so just click on the hyperlinks here as this information
is customized for you and for my students
in every single country in the world.
And the last thing I wanna say about this Excel file
is that if you wanna make more room to view
and complete exercises, just please click on this
minus or plus box here, to make it bigger or smaller, okay,
and you can even get rid of the toolbar there at the top
by clicking the minus, okay, it takes a second to update,
but once you do it, you're set, and that's for every single
tab as is, so customize it for yourself just so that there's
enough real estate for you on your screen
to be able to complete the exercises, if you want to.
And you can also click this upward facing triangle here,
to make more room, and I had a lot of fun putting this
together, and I really really hope that you enjoy it.
And so, many of the tabs will update
as you complete the exercises in this course.
For example, if we click on the Dashboard Summary
blue button, we can see a snapshot, bottom line update
on our savings, our money protected,
and money making status, and you can even save this tab
actually as a PDF, so you can track your financial health
and how it's improving over time, so the print preview,
I've already set it up for you so you can print it
if you want to or just save it as a PDF by printing the PDF,
if you have questions on how to do that, just let me know.
Lastly, there's many optional side notes in the course
dealing with really fun topics like Warren Buffet's favorite
types of investments, protecting yourself
from identity theft, should you hire a financial advisor,
should you start your own business, et cetera,
and so, please watch the next lecture to get started
with part one of this course, Saving Money.
Thank you.